Nine Days of Prayer for One Deceased

EACH DAY:

V. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil.

R. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.

V. Surely your goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.

R. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.

V. Rest eternal grant to them, O Lord;

R. And let light perpetual shine upon them.

Then say the prayer appointed for the day.

After the day's prayer, say the Lord's Prayer and this concluding sentence

May the souls of the faithful departed, through the mercies of God, rest in peace. Amen.

FIRST DAY

O GOD, YOU ARE FULL OF MERCY and ready to forgive; receive our prayers for the soul of your servant N., whom you have now called to depart out of this world: deliver him out of the hand of the enemy, hold him in everlasting remembrance, and command your holy angels to receive him and bring him into paradise: that as his hope and faith were in you, he may without fear or suffering enter the joys of eternal life; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

SECOND DAY

TO YOU, O LORD, I commend the soul of your servant Dean, that being dead to the world, he may live to you; and whatever sins he has committed, through the frailty of our mortal nature, graciously wash away by the pardon of your most merciful loving kindness; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

THIRD DAY

O GOD, YOUR MERCIES are more than we can know; hear my prayer for Dean and welcome him into the land of light and joy, in the fellowship of all your saints; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

FOURTH DAY

HEAR THE PRAYER I bring before you, O Lord, that the soul of your servant Dean, which you have called to depart this life, may find a place in the eternal dwelling places of peace and light and be welcomed into the fellowship of your saints; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

FIFTH DAY

GRANT US, WHO MOURN, grace that we may entrust Dean to your never-failing love; receive him into the arms of your mercy, and remember him according to the steadfast loving-kindness you show toward your people; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

SIXTH DAY

OF THE ABUNDANCE of your loving-kindness, O Lord, have mercy upon the soul of your servant Dean and, now that he is released from the weakness of mortality, restore him and give him a place in your everlasting salvation; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

SEVENTH DAY

GRANT, O LORD, that Dean, for whom I pray, may know the companionship of your blessed ones in heaven, and that we who mourn may be comforted and supported in the same blessed fellowship of love and prayer until we too come to our journey's end; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

EIGHTH DAY

O LORD, OUR SAVIOR AND OUR JUDGE, by your passion and through your never failing mercies, grant forgiveness to Dean for all his sins, and rest from all the burdens he has carried; and by your Spirit, bring us all to acknowledge our sins that we may seek your forgiveness and make us patient and joyful to forgive one another for your sake; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

NINTH DAY

I GIVE YOU THANKS, O Lord, that you have created us to know and love you, and to live with each other in joyful companionship. In grief, strengthen my hope, and in sorrow, keep me from despair. Grant that Dean may go from strength to strength in the life of perfect service, and that I may so serve you here, that at the last, by your call, I will stand before you and with those whom I have loved but see no longer; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
